#  MVP SDD – Minimal Viable Product System Design Document

**1.**       **Introduction** **[[Ma1]](#_msocom_1)** 

a.       Brief Overview About App/System

                                                               i.      Problem

                                                             ii.      Solution

b.       Purpose[[Ma2]](#_msocom_2)  of the SDD

c.       Vision

d.       Background

e.       Assumptions[[Ma3]](#_msocom_3) 

f.        Concerns

g.       Constraints[[Ma4]](#_msocom_4) 

h.       Risks[[Ma5]](#_msocom_5) 

i.         Executive Summary

                                                               i.      Document Scope

1.       In-Scope

2.       Out-Of-Scope

                                                             ii.      Project Goals

                                                           iii.      User Types

1.       User Types

2.       User Characteristics[[Ma6]](#_msocom_6) 

3.       User Actions - Input and Outputs (Table Format)

4.       User Problem Statement

5.       User Objectives

j.         Business Model and Drivers

**2.**       **Features****[[Ma7]](#_msocom_7)** 

a.       Core

b.       Extra/Future Features

**3.**       **Design Considerations**

a.       Background information[[Ma8]](#_msocom_8) 

b.       Current Process

c.       Proposed Process

d.       Design Constraints

e.       Goals and Guidelines[[Ma9]](#_msocom_9) 

f.        Development Methods & Contingencies

g.       Special Design Aspects

h.       Important Factors

i.         Design Trade-offs [[Ma10]](#_msocom_10) 

j.         Application Compatibilities [[Ma11]](#_msocom_11) 

**4.**       **Security**

a.       Authentication

b.       Authorization

c.       Logging and Auditing

d.       Encryption

**5.**       **Architecture Design**

a.       User Output Mind Map

b.       Context Diagram

c.       Object Modelling

6.       **System Interface Design** (Figma)

**7.**       **Profiles and Presentations**

a.       PowerPoints

                                                               i.      App/System Overview Summary[[Ma12]](#_msocom_12) 

8.       Technologies Stack

a.       Web

b.       Mobile

c.       Other technologies used  
  
  

---

 [[Ma1]](#_msoanchor_1)Define the problem that the application is trying to solve – Context

 [[Ma2]](#_msoanchor_2)Provide an overall description of the SDD, its purpose.  Reference the system name and identifying information about the system to be implemented

Instructions: Provide the purpose of the SDD. This document should be tailored to fit a particular project’s needs.

 [[Ma3]](#_msoanchor_3)Instructions: Describe any assumptions or dependencies regarding the system, software and its use. These may concern such issues as: related software or hardware, operating systems, end-user characteristics, and possible and/or probable changes in functionality.

 [[Ma4]](#_msoanchor_4)Instructions: Describe any global limitations or constraints that have a significant impact on the design of the system’s hardware, software and/or communications, and describe the associated impact. Such constraints may be imposed by any of the following (the list is not exhaustive):

•         Hardware or software environment

•         End-user environment

•         Availability or volatility of resources

•         Standards compliance

•         Interoperability requirements

•         Interface/protocol requirements

•         Licensing requirements

•         Data repository and distribution requirements

•         Security requirements (or other such regulations)

•         Memory or other capacity limitations

•         Performance requirements

•         Network communications

•         Verification and validation requirements (testing)

•         Other means of addressing quality goals

•         Other requirements described in the Requirements Document

 [[Ma5]](#_msoanchor_5)Instructions: Describe any risks associated with the system design and proposed mitigation strategies

 [[Ma6]](#_msoanchor_6)  
Include things like age, job responsibilities, software, hardware, environment (for example, home, shared office, private office, shared public terminal), computer experience, and Web experience. **User characteristics** can also include type of disability, adaptive strategies used, and experience with specific assistive technologies

 [[Ma7]](#_msoanchor_7)What are the business drivers

 [[Ma8]](#_msoanchor_8)Instructions: Describe issues which need to be addressed or resolved before attempting to devise a complete design solution.

 [[Ma9]](#_msoanchor_9)Instructions: Describe any goals, guidelines, principles, or priorities which dominate or embody the design of the system and its software. Examples of such goals might be: an emphasis on speed versus memory use; or working, looking, or “feeling” like an existing product. Guidelines include coding guidelines and conventions. For each such goal or guideline, describe the reason for its desirability unless it is implicitly obvious. Describe any design policies and/or tactics that do not have sweeping architectural implications (meaning they would not significantly affect the overall organization of the system and its high-level structures), but which nonetheless affect the details of the interface and/or implementation of various aspects of the system (e.g., choice of which specific product to use).

 [[Ma10]](#_msoanchor_10)Flexibility

Interoperability

Performance

Reliability and robustness

Usability

 [[Ma11]](#_msoanchor_11)Where the application can run or be accessible at

 [[Ma12]](#_msoanchor_12)What is the application about, a person can just watch the slide show and get to understand what is the app without, checking out the SSD